Help reworked (#263)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: en/help.md

---

## Delta Chat?

Chat via messages over e-mail, encrypted if possible (with Autocrypt).
**No registration, just your existing e-mail account and the Delta Chat software.**

### Chat with?

> Everyone that has an e-mail address - even if the recipient is not using

Reviewer: "everyone who"

> Everyone that has an e-mail address - even if the recipient is not using

Author: ```suggestion
Everyone you can e-mail - even if that someone isn't using
```

the Delta Chat app. End-to-end encryption to everyone with an Autocrypt capable e-mail program.

### Advantages?

- _Independent_ of any company or services. You own _your_ data.
- Your data is not saved on a central server unless all users for some reason are using
  the same e-mail servers.
- _Your_ address book is not distributed to anyone.

> - _Fast_ by the use of Push-IMAP.

Author: ```suggestion
- _Fast_, by the use of IMAP IDLE.
```

- _Copyleft_ and _Standards_ based libre software.

### What messages are shown?

- Messages from your **address book** contacts
- Messages and replies from contacts **contacted by you**

Other messages can be found in the main menu under **Contact requests**, from where chats can be started too.

### Spam?

- Messages and addresses in spam folders are ignored.
- With no automatic messages from unknown contacts, normally there is **no spam**.
- **Block** contacts if needed.

### Images, videos and other attachments?

- Yes. All incoming and outgoing e-mail attachments are displayed and attached as separate messages.

### _Your_ profile picture?

> - Only contacts you write to your contacts see your profile picture if you add one.

Reviewer: ?

> - Only contacts you write to your contacts see your profile picture if you add one.

Author: ```suggestion
- Only contacts you write to see your profile picture, if you add one.
```

- It is attached for contacts not on Delta Chat.

> - It is sent ofen enough that your contacts will get it on their new device.

Author: ```suggestion
- It is sent often enough that your contacts will get it on their new device.
```

> - It is sent ofen enough that your contacts will get it on their new device.

Reviewer: "often"

Reviewer: But the whole sentence is unclear.

### HTML e-mails?

- Yes. If e-mail you get has no plain text part, HTML is converted to plain text in the app.
Sent e-mails always use plain text.

> ### Delta chat login?

Author: ```suggestion
### Login?
```

> ### Delta chat login?

Reviewer: The question is unclear.

> Username and password, like other e-mail programs such as Thunderbird, K9-Mail, or Mutt.

Author: ### 
```suggestion
Username and password, like other e-mail programs such as Thunderbird, K-9 Mail, or Mutt.
```

> Username and password, like other e-mail programs such as Thunderbird, K9-Mail, or Mutt.

Reviewer: It is K-9 Mail, not K9-Mail.

Author: I looked it up, and was wondering why I still thought it looked wrong. Thanks.

- Microphone *(can be disallowed)*.
  - Record audio: For audio messages.
- Storage *(can be disallowed)*.
  - Modify or delete the contents of your SD card: To download message attachments.
  - Read the contents of your SD card: To share files with your contacts.
  - Full network access: To connect to your e-mail provider.
  - View Wi-Fi connections: To connect to your e-mail provider.
- Other optional capabilities
  - Change your audio settings: So you can choose ringtones and volume for notifications and audio messages.
  - Run at startup: So you don't have to start Delta Chat manually.
  - Control vibration: For notifications.
  - View network connections: to connect to your e-mail provider.
  - Prevent phone from sleeping: Easier copying of the security code from the Autocrypt Setup Message.
  - Ignoring battery optimisations: For users who want to receive messages all the time.

## Groups

### Creation

- **Add group** from the "Sandwich menu" in the upper right corner of the chat overview.
- Select **group members** and hit the checkmark in the upper right corner. Type in a **group name**.

> -Write the **first message** in the group and all members are informed about it and can answer in it (otherwise it is invisible to its members).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Write the **first message** in the group and all members are informed about it and can answer in it (otherwise it is invisible to its members).
```

  provider attacks. See [countermitm.readthedocs.io](https://countermitm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/new.html)
  for the R&D behind this feature.
  
- Not the same as 1:1 chats with a verified contact, even if there are only 2 people in the verified group.
  One difference is that you could easily add more people to the group, but there are other implications as
  well.

- Verified groups are invariably secured. Any breakage (cleartext or wrongly
  signed messages etc.) will be flagged and such messages will not be shown in
  this chat. You can trust all messages in this verified-checkmark chat to have
  not been read/altered by middle parties.

- 1:1 chats are opportunistic, it is meant to allow people to communicate no
  matter if they change e-mail clients, devices, setups etc. That's why there
  is no verification checkmark, even if you have verified the contact.

- Continual improvement since introduction in 2018.
  Large groups can be problematic, or messages can become unreadable.
  Early 2020 a security review is underway, and the QR-join protocols are being worked on.

### Deleted myself.

> - No. As you're no longer a group member, you cannot add yourself again. 

Author: ```suggestion
- OK. As you're no longer a group member, you cannot add yourself again. 
```

> - No. As you're no longer a group member, you cannot add yourself again. 

Reviewer: "No"?

  Ask any other group member to re-add you.

### Group exit.

> - Delete the chat group or your user from the group list, or "mute" it.

Author: ```suggestion
- Delete your user from the group list, or "mute" it.
```

> - Delete the chat group or your user from the group list, or "mute" it.

Reviewer: Deleting the group does not result in leaving the group anymore, it will reappear when someone sends a message. This is outdated.

  and often used from multiple devices independently. This means that if your
  Delta Chat private key is leaked, and someone has a record
  of all your in-transit messages, that someone will be able to read them.  

- Note that if anyone has seized or hacked your running device, that someone can
  typically read all your messages, regardless if Perfect Forward Secrecy
  is in place or not. Having access to a single device from a member of a group,
  will typically expose a lot of the social graph. Using e-mail addresses that
  are not easily tracked back to persons helps more for protecting group members from
  the effects of device seizure.

- Delta Chat developers are sketching up ways to better protect communications against the event
  of device seizure.

### Metadata protection?

- As a decentralized messenger, metadata from Delta Chat users
  is are not stored on a single central server. However, it is stored on the different mail
  servers of the respective sender and recipient of a message.

- Each mail server can currently determine who sent and received a message from the unencrypted To/CC headers,

>   This also distinguishes who is part of a group. Delta Chat itself could avoid unencrypted To/CC headers quite easily

Author: quite …?
